
# Copper Cabling Installation Tools
----
Data cable for a typical office is installed as a structured cabling system. With structured cabling, the network adapter port in each computer is connected to a wall port using a flexible patch cord. Behind the wall port, permanent cable is run through the wall and ceiling to an equipment room and connected to a patch panel. The port on the patch panel is then connected to a port on an Ethernet switch.

A structured cabling system uses two types of cable termination:

- Patch cords are terminated using RJ45 plugs crimped to the end of the cable.

Permanent cable is terminated to wall ports and patch panels using insulation displacement connectors (IDC), also referred to as "**punchdown blocks**."

*The 100 m distance limitation is for the whole link, referred to as "channel link." Each patch cord can only be up to 5 m long. Permanent link use solid cable with thicker wires. Patch cords use stranded cable with thinner wires that is more flexible but also suffers more from attenuation.*

Installing cable in this type of system involves the use of cable strippers, punchdown tools, and crimpers.

## Cable Stripper and Snips

To terminate cable, a small section of outer jacket must be removed to expose the wire pairs. This must be done without damaging the insulation on the inner wire pairs. A **cable stripper** is designed to score the outer jacket just enough to allow it to be removed. Set the stripper to the correct diameter, and then place the cable in the stripper and rotate the tool once or twice. The score cut in the insulation should now allow you to remove the section of jacket.