
# Ram Types

The CPU works by processing the instructions generated by software (processes) in a pipeline. Instructions that are at the top of the pipeline are stored in the CPU’s registers and cache. The CPU only has a small amount of cache. We add more support with RAM

System memory is implemented as random-access memory (RAM) devices. RAM is faster than the flash memory used for SSDs and much faster than an HDD, but it is volatile. Volatile means that the memory device can only store data when it is powered on.

System memory is measure in gigabytes (GB). The amount of system RAM determines the PC’s ability to work with multiple applications at the same time and to process large files efficiently.
## Virtual RAM
If there is not enough system RAM, the memory space can be extended by using disk storage. This is referred to as a pagefile or swap space. The total amount of addressable memory (system RAM plus swap space) is referred to as virtual memory or **virtual RAM**. With virtual memory, the OS assigns memory locations to processes in 4 kilobyte chunks called pages. The memory controller moves inactive pages of memory to the swap space to free up physical RAM and retrieves pages from the swap space to physical RAM when required by process execution. An excessive amount of such paging activity will slow the computer down because disk transfer rates are slower than RAM transfer rates.\

*Virtual memory is not just used to supplement RAM with swap space. It serves an important function in protecting the operation and integrity of the PC. Multiple processes can share the RAM device resource as a virtual memory space that is mediated by the operating system. This is more secure and reliable than allowing each process to use physical RAM devices.*

## SODIMM
Small Outline DIMM. 
 Laptop RAM, memory install at 45 degree angle to allow the chips to be inserted or removed

# Ram Channels