
You must make sure that the devices attached to your network are only being operated by authorized users, especially when users can connect wirelessly. Understanding the types of wireless security protocols and authentication methods will help you to configure secure network settings.

# Wi-Fi Protected Access
----

Wireless LANs require careful configuration to make the connection and transmissions over the link secure. The main problem with wireless is that because it is unguided, there is no way to prevent anything within range from listening to the signals. If the wireless traffic is unencrypted, this could allow the interception of data or the unauthorized use of the network.

### Temporal Key Integrity Protocol

The first version of **Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA)** was designed to fix critical vulnerabilities in the earlier wired equivalent privacy (WEP) standard. Like WEP, version 1 of WPA uses the RC4 symmetric cipher to encrypt traffic but adds a mechanism called the **Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP)** to try to mitigate the various attacks against WEP that had been developed.

### WPA2

Neither WEP nor the original WPA version are considered secure enough for continued use. Even with TKIP, WPA is vulnerable to various types of replay attack that aim to recover the encryption key. **WPA2** uses the **Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)** cipher deployed within the Counter Mode with Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP). AES replaces RC4 and CCMP replaces TKIP. CCMP provides authenticated encryption, which is designed to make replay attacks harder.

	Some access points allow WPA2 to be used in WPA2-TKIP or WPA2-TKIP+AES compatibility mode. This provides support for legacy clients at the expense of weakening the security. It is better to select WPA2-AES.

### WPA3

Weaknesses have also been found in WPA2, however, which has led to its intended replacement by WPA3. The main features of WPA3 are as follows:

- **Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE)**—WPA2 uses a 4-way handshake to allow a station to associate with an access point, authenticate its credential, and exchange a key to use for data encryption. This 4-way handshake mechanism is vulnerable to manipulations that allow a threat actor to recover the key. WPA3 replaces the 4-way handshake with the more secure SAE mechanism.
- **Updated cryptographic protocols**—WPA3 replaces AES CCMP with the stronger AES Galois Counter Mode Protocol (GCMP) mode of operation.
- **Protected management frames**—Management frames are used for association and authentication and disassociation and deauthentication messages between stations and access points as devices join and leave the network. These frames can be spoofed and misused in various ways under WPA and WPA2. WPA3 mandates use of encryption for these frames to protect against key recovery attacks and DoS attacks that force stations to disconnect.
- **Wi-Fi Enhanced Open**—An open Wi-Fi network is one with no passphrase. Any station can join the network. In WPA2, this also means that all traffic is unencrypted. WPA3 encrypts this traffic. This means that any station can still join the network, but traffic is protected against sniffing.