
As a CompTIA A+ technician, you need to make yourself aware of the latest developments and best practices to use to secure systems. You will need to ensure that common security controls are installed and configured on each workstation. These controls include antivirus, firewall, encryption, and account policies.


# Password Best Practices
----

One of the first pillars of workstation security is ensuring that only authorized users can operate the computers connected to the network. Effective user security depends on strong credential management, effective account policies, and best practice end-user behavior.

Password-based authentication systems have a long history of vulnerability. Some of this ineffectiveness is due to inadequate technologies and some due to poor user password practice. As not all companies can make the switch to multifactor sign-in, password best practice is still a key security requirement.

The biggest vulnerability of knowledge factor authentication to cyberattack is the use of weak passwords. A threat actor might use dictionary files containing popular words and phrases or strings from breached password databases to compromise account credentials. Once a threat actor obtains a password, she or he can gain access to a system posing as that person.

### 

Password Rules

The following rules are easy for users to apply and make passwords more difficult to crack:

- **Make the password sufficiently long**—12+ character length is suitable for an ordinary user account. Administrative accounts should have longer passwords.
- **Choose a memorable phrase, but do not use any personal information**—Anything that a threat actor could discover or guess should not be used in a password. This includes things such as significant dates, family names, username, job title, company name, pet name, quotations, and song lyrics.

Some password policies impose **complexity requirements** beyond minimum length. Rules might specify that the password must contain a given mix of character types: uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols. A password policy may have an **expiration requirement**, which means that the user must change the password after a set period.