


# Disposal And Recycling outsourcing concepts
----
If a media device is not being repurposed or recycled, physical destruction might be an appropriate disposal method. A disk can be mechanically destroyed in specialist machinery:

- **Shredding**—The disk is ground into little pieces. A mechanical shredder works in much the same way as a paper shredder.
- **Incinerating**—The disk is exposed to high heat to melt its components. This should be performed in a furnace designed for media sanitization. Municipal incinerators may leave remnants.
- **Degaussing**—A hard disk is exposed to a powerful electromagnet that disrupts the magnetic pattern that stores the data on the disk surface. Note that degaussing does not work with SSDs or optical media.

There are many third-party vendors specializing in outsourced secure disposal. They should provide a certificate of destruction showing the make, model, and serial number of each drive they have handled plus date of destruction and how it was destroyed. A third-party company might also use overwriting or crypto-erase and issue a certificate of recycling rather than destruction.

A disk can also be destroyed using drill or hammer hand tools—do be sure to wear protective goggles. While safe for most cases, this method is not appropriate for the most highly confidential data as there is at least some risk of leaving fragments that could be analyzed using specialist tools.


# Data Destruction Methods
----
Data destruction and disposal refer to either destroying or decommissioning data storage media, including hard disks, flash drives, tape media, and CDs/DVDs. The problem has become particularly prominent as organizations repurpose and recycle their old computers, either by donating them to charities or by sending them to a recycling company, where parts may later be recovered and sold.

If the media device is going to be repurposed or recycled, a best practice procedure to sanitize data remnants on the media must be applied before the disk can be released. It is important to understand that media must also be sanitized if the device is repurposed within the organization. For example, a server used to host a database of regulated data that no longer meets the performance requirement might be repurposed as file server. It is imperative that the database information be sanitized prior to this change in role.

When selecting an appropriate sanitization method, you need to understand the degree to which data on different media types may be recoverable and the likelihood that a threat actor might attempt such recovery. Data from a file "deleted" from a disk is not erased. Rather, the HDD sector or SSD block is marked as available for writing. The information contained at that storage location will only be removed when new file data is written. Similarly, using the OS standard formatting tool to delete partitions and write a new file system will only remove references to files and mark all sectors as useable. In the right circumstances and with the proper tools, any deleted information from a hard drive could be recovered relatively easily. Recovery from SSDs requires specialist tools but is still a risk.

### Erasing/Wiping

Disk erasing/wiping software ensures that old data is destroyed by writing to each location on a hard disk drive, either using zeroes or in a random pattern. This leaves the disk in a "clean" state ready to be passed to the new owner. This overwriting method is suitable for all but the most confidential data, but it is time-consuming and requires special software. Also, it does not work reliably with SSDs.

### Low Level Format

Most disk vendors supply low level format tools to reset a disk to its factory condition. Most of these tools will now incorporate some type of sanitize function. You must verify the specific capability of each disk model, but the following functions are typical:

- Secure Erase (SE) performs zero-filling on HDDs and marks all blocks as empty on SSDs. The SSD firmware's automatic garbage collectors then perform the actual erase of each block over time. If this process is not completed (and there is no progress indicator), there is a risk of remnant recovery, though this requires removing the chips from the device to analyze them in specialist hardware.
- Instant Secure Erase (ISE)/Crypto Erase uses the capabilities of self-encrypting drives (SEDs) as a reliable sanitization method for both HDDs and SSDs. An SED encrypts all its contents by using a media encryption key (MEK). Crypto Erase destroys this key, rendering the encrypted data unrecoverable.

	`If the device firmware does not support encryption, using a software disk-encryption product and then destroying the key and using SE should be sufficient for most confidentiality requirements.`


