
The cloud makes almost any type of IT infrastructure available for use over the Internet with pay-per-use billing. Most companies make use of at least one cloud service, and many have moved all of what used to be on-premises server roles to the cloud. In this topic, you will learn to summarize cloud deployment and service models. This will help you to support cloud-connected networks and provide informed advice and support to your users.

# Cloud Deployment Models
----
A cloud can be provisioned using various ownership and access arrangements. These cloud deployment models can be broadly categorized as follows:

- **Public (or multitenant)** is a service offered over the Internet by cloud service providers (CSPs) to cloud consumers, often referred to as tenants. With this model, a CSP can offer subscriptions or pay-as-you-go financing or even provide lower-tier services free of charge. As a shared resource, there are risks regarding performance and security. Multicloud architectures are where the consumer organization uses services from more than one CSP.
- **Private** is cloud infrastructure that is completely private to and owned by the organization. In this case, there is likely to be one business unit dedicated to managing the cloud, while other business units make use of it. With private cloud computing, organizations can exercise greater control over the privacy and security of their services. This type of delivery method is geared more toward banking and governmental services that require strict access control in their operations.
- **Community** is where several organizations share the costs of either a hosted private or fully private cloud. This is usually done to pool resources for a common concern, such as standardization and security policies.
- **Hybrid** is a cloud computing solution that implements some sort of hybrid public/private/community. For example, a travel organization may run a sales website for most of the year using a private cloud but "break out" the solution to a public cloud at times when much higher utilization is forecast. As another example, a hybrid deployment may be used to provide some functions via a public cloud but keep sensitive or regulated infrastructure, applications, and data on-premises.

