
PC support tasks must be completed without causing physical injury to yourself or others and without damaging the equipment that you are servicing. There are several tools to use and operational procedures to follow to get the job done quickly, safely, and correctly.

There is also the issue of environmental impacts on computer systems to consider. Computers need stable power supplies and are sensitive to excessive heat. As a CompTIA A+ technician, you must understand the use of controls to ensure the proper environmental conditions for IT systems.

# Compliance with Regulations
----
When performing PC maintenance work, you may need to take account of compliance with government regulations. Regulations that typically affect PC maintenance or the installation of new equipment are:

- **Health and safety laws**—Keeping the workplace free from hazards.
- **Building codes**—Ensuring that fire prevention and electrical systems are intact and safe.
- **Environmental regulations**—Disposing of waste correctly.

For example, in the United States, the most common safety regulations are those issued by the federal government, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and state standards regarding employee safety.

While specific regulations may vary from country to country and state to state, in general, employers are responsible for providing a safe and healthy working environment for their employees. Employees have a responsibility to use equipment in the workplace in accordance with the guidelines given to them and to report any hazards. Employees should also not interfere with any safety systems, including signs or warnings or devices such as firefighting equipment. Employees should not introduce or install devices, equipment, or materials to the workplace without authorization or without assessing the installation.

# Electrical Safety
-