
# Regulated Data Classification
----

Regulated data is information that must be collected, processed, and stored in compliance with federal and/or state legislation. If a company processes regulated data collected from customers who reside in different countries, it must comply with the relevant legislation for each country.

A breach is where confidential or regulated data is read, copied, modified, or deleted without authorization. Data breaches can be accidental or intentional and malicious. A malicious breach is also referred to as data exfiltration. Any type of breach of regulated data must normally be reported to the regulator and to individual persons impacted by the breach.

### Personally Identifiable Information

Personally identifiable information (PII) is data that can be used to identify, contact, or locate an individual or, in the case of identity theft, to impersonate him or her. A cell phone number is a good example of PII. Others include name, date of birth, email address, street address, biometric data, and so on. PII may also be defined as responses to challenge questions, such as "What is your favorite color/pet/movie?" PII is often used for password reset mechanisms and to confirm identity over the telephone. Consequently, disclosing PII inadvertently can lead to identity theft.

Some types of information may be PII depending on the context. For example, when someone browses the web using a static IP address, the IP address is PII. An address that is dynamically assigned by the ISP may not be considered PII. These are the sort of complexities that must be considered when determining compliance with privacy legislation.

### Personal Government-issued Information

Personal Government-issued Information that is issued to individuals by federal or state governments is also PII. Examples include a social security number (SSN), passport, driving license, and birth/marriage certificates. Data collected and held by the US federal government is subject to specific privacy legislation, such as the US Privacy Act.

### Healthcare Data

Healthcare data refers to medical and insurance records plus associated hospital and laboratory test results. Healthcare data may be associated with a specific person or used as an anonymized or de-identified data set for analysis and research, such as in clinical trials to develop new medicines. An anonymized data set is one where the identifying data is removed completely. A de-identified data set contains codes that allow the subject information to be reconstructed by the data provider. Healthcare data is highly sensitive. Consequently, the reputational damage caused by a healthcare data breach is huge.

### Credit Card Transactions

There are also industry-enforced regulations mandating data security. A good example is the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) that governs processing of credit card transactions and other bank card payments. It sets out protections that must be provided if cardholder data—names, addresses, account numbers, and card numbers and expiry dates—is stored. It also sets out sensitive authentication data, such as the CV2 confirmation number or the PIN used for the card.

Regulations such as PCI DSS have specific cybersecurity control requirements; others simply mandate "best practice," as represented by a particular industry or international framework. Frameworks for security controls are established by organizations such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).

### Data Handling Best Practice

Employees should be trained to identify PII and to handle personal or sensitive data appropriately. This means not making unauthorized copies or allowing the data to be seen or captured by any unauthorized persons. Examples of treating sensitive data carelessly include leaving order forms with customers' credit card details on view on a desk, putting a credit card number in an unencrypted notes field in a customer database, or forwarding an email with personal details somewhere in the thread or in a Cc (copy all) field.

### Data Retention Requirements

Another issue for regulated data is its retention on both file and database servers and in backup files:

- Regulation might set a maximum period for the retention of data. For example, if a company collects a customer’s address and credit card information to fulfill an order and the customer then makes no further orders, the company might be expected to securely destroy the information it has collected.
- Regulation might also demand that information be retained for a minimum period. In the credit card example, the company should log when and how the protected information was destroyed and preserve that log for inspection for a given period.
