
Working with customers is a fundamental job duty for every CompTIA A+ technician, and in this context, you are a representative of your profession as well as your company. How you conduct yourself will have a direct and significant impact on the satisfaction of your customers, and your level of professionalism and communication skills can directly affect whether you will do business with them again.

In this topic, you will identify best practices for PC technicians to use to communicate appropriately with clients and colleagues and to perform support tasks with a high degree of professionalism.

# Professional Support Processes
----

From the point of first contact, the support process must reassure customers that their inquiry will be handled efficiently. If the customer has already encountered a problem with a product, to find that the support process is also faulty will double their poor impression of your company.

### Proper Documentation

Support contact information and hours of operation should be well advertised so that the customer knows exactly how to open a ticket. The service should have proper documentation so that the customer knows what to expect in terms of items that are supported, how long incidents may take to resolve, when they can expect an item to be replaced instead of repaired, and so on.

### Set Expectations and Timeline

On receiving the request (whether it is a call, email, or face-to-face contact), acknowledge the request and set expectations. For example, repeat the request back to the customer, then state the next steps and establish a timeline; for example, "I have assigned this problem to David Martin. If you don't hear from us by 3 p.m., please call me." The customer may have a complaint, a problem with some equipment, or simply a request for information. It is important to clarify the nature of these factors:

- The customer's expectations of what will be done and when to fix the problem.
- The customer's concerns about cost or the impact on business processes.
- Your constraints—time, parts, costs, contractual obligations, and so on.

### Meet Expectations and Timeline

If possible, the request should be resolved in one call. If this is not possible, the call should be dealt with as quickly as possible and escalated to a senior support team if a solution cannot be found promptly. What is important is that you drive problem acceptance and resolution, either by working on a solution yourself or ensuring that the problem is accepted by the assigned person or department. Open tickets should be monitored and re-prioritized to ensure that they do not fail to meet the agreed-upon service and performance levels.

It is imperative to manage the customer's expectations of when the problem will be resolved. Customers should not feel the need to call you to find out what's happening. This is irritating for them to do and means time is wasted dealing with an unnecessary call.

A common problem when dealing with customer complaints is feeling that you must defend every action of your company or department. If the customer makes a true statement about your levels of service (or that of other employees), do not try to think of a clever excuse or mitigating circumstance for the failing; you will sound as though you do not care. If you have let a customer down, be accurate and honest. Empathize with the customer, but identify a positive action to resolve the situation:

"You're right—I'm sorry the technician didn't turn up. I guarantee that a technician will be with you by 3 p.m., and I'll let my supervisor know that you have had to call us. Shall I call you back just after 3 to make sure that things are OK?"

### Repair and Replace Options

If there is a product issue that cannot be solved remotely, you might offer to repair or replace the product:

- **Repair**—The customer will need clear instructions about how to pack and return the item to a repair center along with a ticket-tracking number and returned-merchandize authorization (RMA). The customer must be kept up to date on the progress of the repair.
- **Replace**—Give the customer clear instructions for how the product will be delivered or how it can be re-ordered and whether the broken product must be returned.

### Follow Up

If you have resolved the ticket and tested that the system is operating normally again, you should give the customer a general indication of what caused the issue and what you did to fix it along with assurance that the problem is now fixed and unlikely to reoccur. Upon leaving or ending the call, thank the customer for their time and assistance and show that you have appreciated the chance to solve the issue.

It might be appropriate to arrange a follow-up call at a later date to verify that the issue has not reoccurred and that the customer is satisfied with the assistance provided. When the solution has been tested and verified and the customer has expressed satisfaction with the resolution of the problem, log the ticket as closed. Record the solution and send verification to the customer via email or phone call.

# Professional Support Delivery
----

Respect means that you treat others (and their property) as you would like to be treated. Respect is one of the hallmarks of professionalism. 

### Be On Time

Ensure that you are on time for each in-person appointment or contact call. If it becomes obvious that you are not going to be on time, inform the customer as soon as possible. Be accountable for your actions, both before you arrive on site and while on site. This means being honest and direct about delays, but make sure this is done in a positive manner. For example:

"I'm sorry I'm late—show me this faulty PC, and I'll start work right away."

"The printer needs a new fuser—and I'm afraid that I don't have this type with me. What I will do is call the office and find out how quickly we can get one..."

"I haven't seen this problem before, but I have taken some notes, and I'll check this out as soon as I get back to the office. I'll give you a call this afternoon—will that be OK?"

### Avoid Distractions

A distraction is anything that interrupts you from the task of resolving the ticket. Other than a genuinely critical incident taking priority, do not allow interruptions when you are working at a customer's site. Do not take calls from colleagues unless they are work-related and urgent. Other than a genuine family emergency, do not take personal calls or texts. Do not browse websites, play games, or respond to posts on social media.

If you are speaking with a customer on the telephone, always ask their permission before putting the call on hold or transferring the call.

### Deal Appropriately with Confidential and Private Materials

You must also demonstrate respect for the customer’s property, including any confidential or private data they might have stored on a PC or smartphone or printed as a document:

- Do not open data files, email applications, contact managers, web pages that are signed in to an account, or any other store of confidential or private information. If any of these apps or files are open on the desktop, ask the customer to close them before you start work.
- Similarly, if there are printed copies of confidential materials (bank statements or personal letters, for instance) on or near a desk, do not look at them. Make the customer aware of them, and allow time for them to be put away.
- Do not use any equipment or services such as PCs, printers, web access, or phones for any purpose other than resolving the ticket.
- If you are making a site visit, keep the area in which you are working clean and tidy and leave it as you found it.

# Professional Appearance
----

There are many things that contribute to the art of presentation. Your appearance and attire, the words you use, and respecting cultural sensitivities are particularly important.

### Professional Appearance and Attire

When you visit a customer site, you must represent the professionalism of your company in the way you are dressed and groomed. If you do not have a company uniform, you must wear clothes that are suitable for the given environment or circumstance:

- Formal attire means matching suit clothes in sober colors and with minimal accessories or jewelry. Business formal is only usually required for initial client meetings.
- Business casual means smart clothes. Notably, jeans, shorts and short skirts, and T-shirts/vests are not smart workwear. Business casual is typically sufficient for troubleshooting appointments.

### Using Proper Language

When you greet someone, you should be conscious of making a good first impression. When you arrive on site, make eye contact, greet the customer, and introduce yourself and your company. When you answer the phone, introduce yourself and your department and offer assistance.

When you speak to a customer, you need to make sense. Obviously, you must be factually accurate, but it is equally important that the customer understands what you are saying. Not only does this show the customer that you are competent but it also proves that you are in control of the situation and gives the customer confidence in your abilities. You need to use clear and concise statements that avoid jargon, abbreviations, acronyms, and other technical language that a user might not understand. For example, compare the following scenarios:

"Looking at the TFT, can you tell me whether the driver is signed?"

"Is a green check mark displayed on the icon?"

The first question depends on the user understanding what a TFT is, what a signed driver might be, and knowing that a green check mark indicates one. The second question gives you the same information without having to rely on the user's understanding.

While you do not have to speak very formally, avoid being over-familiar with customers. Do not use slang phrases and do not use any language that may cause any sort of offense. For example, you should greet a customer by saying "Hello" or "Good morning" rather than "Hey!"

### Cultural Sensitivity

Cultural sensitivity means being aware of customs and habits used by other people. It is easy to associate culture simply with national elements, such as the difference between the way Americans and Japanese greet one another. However, within each nation there are many different cultures created by things such as social class, business opportunities, leisure pursuits, and so on. For example, a person may expect to be addressed by a professional title, such as "doctor" or "judge." Other people may be more comfortable speaking on a first-name basis. It is safer to start on a formal basis and use more informal terms of address if the customer signals that happier speaking that way.

You need to realize that though people may be influenced by several cultures, their behavior is not determined by culture. Customer service and support require consideration for other people. You cannot show this if you make stereotyped assumptions about people's cultural background without treating them as an individual.

Accent, dialect, and language are some of the crucial elements of cultural sensitivity. These can make it hard for you to understand a customer and perhaps difficult for a customer to understand you. When dealing with a language barrier, use questions, summaries, and restatements to clarify customer statements. Consider using visual aids or demonstrations rather than trying to explain something in words.

Also, different cultures define personal space differently, so be aware of how close or far you are from the customer.

# Professional Communications
----

You must listen carefully to what is being said to you; it will give you clues to the customer's technical level, enabling you to pace and adapt your replies accordingly.

### Active Listening

Active listening is the skill of listening to an individual so that you give that person your full attention and are not trying to argue with, comment on, or misinterpret what they have said. With active listening, you make a conscious effort to keep your attention focused on what the other person is saying, as opposed to being distracted by thinking what your reply is going to be or by some background noise or interruption. Some of the other techniques of active listening are to reflect phrases used by the other person or to restate the issue and summarize what they have said. This helps to reassure the other person that you have attended to what has been said. You should also try to take notes of what the customer says so that you have an accurate record.

### Clarifying and Questioning Techniques

There will inevitably be a need to establish some technical facts with the customer. This means directing the customer to answer your questions. There are two broad types of questioning:

- **Open-ended**—A question that invites the other person to compose a response. For example, "What seems to be the problem?" invites the customer to give an opinion about what they think the problem is.
- **Closed**—A question that can only be answered with a "Yes" or "No" or that requires some other fixed response. For example, "What error number is displayed on the panel?" can only have one answer.

The basic technique is start with open-ended questions. You may try to guide the customer toward information that is most helpful. For example, "When you say your printer is not working, what problem are you having—will it not switch on?" However, be careful about assuming what the problem is and leading the customer to simply affirming a guess. As the customer explains what they, you may be able to perceive what the problem is. If so, do not assume anything too early. Ask pertinent closed questions that clarify customer statements and prove or disprove your perception. The customer may give you information that is vague or ambiguous. Clarify the customer's meaning by asking questions like, "What did the error message say?" or "When you say the printout is dark, is there a faint image or is it completely black?" or "Is the power LED on the printer lit?"

If a customer is not getting to the point or if you want to follow some specific steps, take charge of the conversation by restating the issue and asking closed questions. For example, consider this interaction:

"It's been like this for ages now, and I've tried pressing a key and moving the mouse, but nothing happens."

"What does the screen look like?"

"It's dark. I thought the computer was just resting, and I know in that circumstance I need to press a key, but that's not working and I really need to get on with..."

In this example, the technician asks an open question that prompts the user to say what they perceive to be the problem instead of relaying valuable troubleshooting information to the technician. Compare with the following scenario:

"It's been like this for ages now, and I've tried pressing a key and moving the mouse, but nothing happens."

"OK, pressing a key should activate the monitor, but since that isn't happening, I'd like to investigate something else first. Can you tell me whether the light on the monitor is green?"

"I don't see a green light. There's a yellow light though."

Restating the issue and using a closed question allows the agent to start working through a series of symptoms to try to diagnose the problem.

Do note that a long sequence of closed questions fired off rapidly may overwhelm and confuse a customer. Do not try to force the pace. Establish the customer's technical level, and target the conversation accordingly.

# Difficult Situations
----

A difficult situation occurs when either you or the customer becomes or risks becoming angry or upset. There are several techniques that you can use to defuse this type of tension.

	It is better to think of the situation as difficult and to avoid characterizing the customer as difficult. Do not personalize support issues.

### Maintain a Positive Attitude

Understand that an angry customer is usually frustrated that things are not working properly or feels let down. Perhaps a technician arrived late, and the customer is already irritated. Or perhaps the customer has spent a large amount of money and is now anxious that it has been wasted on a poor-quality product. Empathizing with the customer is a good way to develop a positive relationship and show that you want to resolve the problem. Saying you are sorry does not necessarily mean you agree with what the customer is saying but rather that you just understand their point of view.

"I'm sorry you're having a problem with your new PC. Let's see what we can do to sort things out..."

As part of maintaining a positive attitude and projecting confidence, avoid the following situations:

- **Arguing with the customer**—Remain calm and only advance facts and practical suggestions that will push the support case toward a resolution.
- **Denying that a problem exists or dismissing its importance**—If the customer has taken it to the point of complaining, then clearly they feels that it is important. Whether you consider the matter trivial is not the issue. Acknowledge the customer’s statement about the problem, and demonstrate how it can be resolved.
- **Being judgmental**—Do not assume that the customer lacks knowledge about the system and is therefore causing the problem.

### Collaborate to Focus on Solutions

It is never easy to talk to someone who is unreasonable, abusive, or shouting, but it is important to be able to deal with these situations professionally.

1. **Identify early signs that a customer is becoming angry**—Indicators of tension include a raised voice, speaking too quickly, interrupting, and so on. Try to calm the situation down by using a low voice and soothing language and focusing on positive actions.
2. **Do not take complaints personally**—Any anger expressed by the customer toward you is not personal but rather a symptom of the customer’s frustration or anxiety.
3. **Let the customer explain the problem while you actively listen**—Draw out the facts, and use them as a positive action plan to drive the support case forward.
4. **Hang up**—Be guided by whatever policy your organization has in place, but in general terms, if a customer is abusive or threatening, issue a caution to warn them about this behavior. If the abuse continues, end the call or escalate it to a manager. Make sure you explain and document your reasons.

### Do Not Post Experiences on Social Media

Everyone has bad days when they feel the need to get some difficult situation off their chest. Find a colleague for a private face-to-face chat, but under no circumstances should you ever disclose these types of experiences via social media outlets. Remember that anything posted to social media is very hard to withdraw and can cause unpredictable reactions.

# Review
----

1. When you arrive at a customer location to service a network printer, the user is upset because the printer is not working and therefore he cannot submit his reports on time. How should you approach this user?

Demonstrate empathy with the customer's situation, use active listening skills to show that you understand the importance of the issue, and make the customer confident that you can help. Then use closed-questioning techniques to start to diagnose the problem.

2. You are trying to troubleshoot a problem over the phone and need to get advice from your manager. How should you handle this with the customer?

Advise the customer that you will put him or her on hold while you speak to someone else, or arrange to call the customer back.

3. You are troubleshooting a print problem, which turned out to be caused by user error. The user is not confident that the problem is solved and wants more reassurance. You have already explained what the user was doing wrong in some detail. What should you do?

Run through the print process step-by-step to show that it works. It is very important to get a customer's acceptance that a problem is closed.

4. You are working on the training documentation for help-desk agents. What should you include for dealing with difficult situations?

Do not argue with customers and/or be defensive. Avoid dismissing customer problems, and do not be judgmental. Try to calm the customer and move the support call toward positive troubleshooting diagnosis and activity, emphasizing a collaborative approach. Do not disclose experiences via social media outlets.