11.5 | 12.5 | 12.6 | 13.2
# CompTIA Objective
----
- 1.4.1 - Wifi / Cellular data network (enable / disable)
	- 1.4.1.1 - 2G / 3G / 4G / 5G
	- 1.4.1.2 - Hotspot
	- 1.4.1.3 - Global System for mobile communications (GSM) vs Code-division multiple access (CDMA)
	- 1.4.1.4 - Preferred Roaming List (PRL) updates
- 1.4.2 - Bluetooth
	- 1.4.2.1 - Enable Bluetooth
	- 1.4.2.2 - Enable Pairing
	- 1.4.2.3 - Find a device for pairing
	- 1.4.2.4 - Enter the appropriate PIN Code
	- 1.4.2.5 - Test Connectivity
- 1.4.3 - Location Services
	- 1.4.3.1 - Global Positioning System (GPS) services
	- 1.4.3.2 - Cellular location services
- 1.4.4 - Mobile device management (MDM) / mobile application management (MAM)
	- 1.4.4.1 - Corp email config
	- 1.4.4.2 - Tw-factor authentication
- 1.4.5 - Mobile device synchronization
	- 1.4.5.1 -  Recognizing data caps
	- 1.4.5.2 - Microsoft 365
	- 1.4.5.3 - Active Sync
	- 1.4.5.4 - Calendar
	- 1.4.5.5 - Contacts
	- 1.4.5.6 - Commercial Mail application





# 11.5 Wireless Networking | Slide 223

# Wireless Networking Facts
----

In addition to copper wires and fiber optic cables, networks can also transmit data using radio waves. This technology is called wireless networking (Wi-Fi).

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Wireless communication
- Wireless standards
- Long-range wireless

**Wireless Communication**

Wireless networks send data through the air using radio waves. These radio waves are referred to as an unbounded medium because they are not encased in a sheath like a fiber optic cable or unshielded twisted pair (UTP) cables. This means that the wireless signal can reach areas that a wired network cannot.

Wireless networks use specific radio frequency ranges that are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The two most common frequencies used by wireless networks are the 2.4 GHZ and 5 GHz ranges.

- 2.4 GHz wireless signals are wider, but shorter. This means they can travel further, but transmit data at a slower rate.
- 5 GHz wireless signals are thinner, but taller. This means they do not travel as far, but can transmit data at a faster rate.

These wireless frequency ranges are considered unlicensed. This means that you do not need special permission to use them. It also means that other devices can also use these frequencies. If two devices using the same frequency are in the same area, the wireless signals will collide and the signals will be dropped.

To remedy this situation, you can adjust the channel on the wireless network. Changing the wireless channel will slightly adjust the frequency to avoid conflicts. Each channel is approximately 20 MHz wide. This means that many of the channels overlap slightly.

The 2.4 GHz range has three non-overlapping channels and the 5 GHz range has 24 non-overlapping channels.

**Wireless Standard**

Wireless networks are all defined by the IEEE 802.11 standards. These standards specify ways to increase bandwidth and reduce interference when transferring data using radio waves. The standards are all labeled with the 802.11 designation and letters designate the updated standard.

The following table describes the 802.11 standards.

|   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Specification|Standard|   |   |   |   |   |
| |802.11a|802.11b|802.11g|802.11n|802.11ac  <br>(Wi-Fi 5)|802.11ax  <br>(Wi-Fi 6)|
|Frequency|5 GHz|2.4 GHz|2.4 GHz|2.4 GHz or  <br>5 GHz|5 GHz|2.4 GHz or 5 GHz|
|Maximum speed|54 Mbps|11 Mbps|54 Mbps|600 Mbps|3.46 Gbps|14 Gbps|
|Maximum distance|100 ft.|150 ft.|150 ft.|300 ft.|300 ft.|300 ft.|
|Channels  <br>(non-overlapped)|23 (12)|11 (3)|11 (3)|2.4 GHz:  <br>11 (3 or 1)  <br>5 GHz:  <br>23 (12 or 6)|Depends on configuration|Depends on configuration|
|Backwards compatibility|N/A|None|802.11b|802.11a/b/g, depending on implementation|802.11b/g/n|802.11b/g/n/ac|

The ability of newer devices to communicate with older devices depends on the capabilities of the transmit radios in the access point. For example, some 802.11n devices can transmit at either 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz. However, a single radio cannot transmit at both frequencies at the same time. A dual band access point can use one radio to transmit at one frequency, and a different radio to transmit at a different frequency.

All speeds and distances are theoretical and will typically be achieved only in an optimal environment.

- Transmission speeds are affected by distance, obstructions (such as walls), and interference.
- Maximum signal distance depends on several factors, including obstructions, antenna strength, and interference. For example, the actual distance for communications in a typical environment (with one or two walls) is roughly half of the maximum.
- Because transmission speeds decrease with distance, either the maximum distance or the maximum speed can be achieved, but not both.

Newer 802.11 standards have added new technologies in order to increase potential bandwidth and transmission distance. The following table provides details for these technologies.

|Technology|Details|
|---|---|
|Multiple-Input, Multiple-Output  <br>(MIMO)|MIMO increases bandwidth by using multiple antennas for both the transmitter and receiver.<br><br>- A system is described by the number of sending and receiving antennas. The 802.11n specifications allow up to four sending and four receiving antennas.<br>- MIMO relies on beamforming to deliver better speeds. _Beamforming_ focuses the signal to a specific receiving device which results in a higher quality signal.|
|Multi-User MIMO  <br>(MU-MIMO)|MU-MIMO is an enhancement to MIMO that allows multiple users to use the same channel.  <br>  <br>In addition to adding MU-MIMO, 802.11ac doubled the number of MIMO radio streams from four to eight.|
|Channel bonding|Channel bonding combines two, non-overlapping 20 MHz channels into a single 40 MHz channel. This results in slightly more than double the bandwidth.<br><br>- The 5 GHz range has a total of 23 channels, with 12 non-overlapping. This allows for a maximum of six non-overlapping bonded (combined) channels.<br>- The 2.4 GHz range has a total of 11 channels, with three non-overlapping. This allows for a maximum of one non-overlapping bonded channel. For this reason, channel bonding is typically not practical for the 2.4 GHz range.|

**Long-Range Wireless**

A long-range wireless network is typically setup to connect two buildings together on the same network. Depending on the distance between the network locations, different solutions are available.

- If the locations are only a short distance apart, you can install a high-end wireless access point with special antennas. These networks still use the unlicensed frequencies and appropriate 802.11 standard.
- If the network locations are spread across a longer distance, special equipment is needed. These long-range networks also need special permission to use a licensed frequency range such as 900 MHz or 3.65 GHz.
- Regardless of the range, some wireless access points allow the power to be increased. Increasing the power allows the access point to transmit a longer distance, but can lead to overheating and instability.
- Always follow FCC guidance and requirements if increasing the power as this can cause interference with other wireless devices in the area.

# 12.5 [[1.3 Given a Scenario, setup & config accessories and ports of mobile devices#12.5 - Mobile Device Network Connectivity Slide 169]]


# 12.6

# 13.2