
Windows 10 and Windows 11 represent the currently supported versions of the Windows client OS. However, while these versions are used for marketing, they actually cover a variety of subtly different OSs. For one thing, Windows is released in editions, each distinguished by support for features that target particular market sectors, such as corporate versus home. Additionally, there have been several iterations of Windows 10, referred to as feature updates. As an A+ technician, you must be able to summarize and compare these differences so that you can provide proper support and advice to your users.

# Windows Versions
----

Windows has been released in several versions over the years. A new version may introduce significant changes in the desktop style and user interface, add new features, and add support for new types of hardware. 

## **32-bit Versus 64-bit**

Each version and edition of Windows 10 was originally available as 32-bit (x86) or 64-bit (x64) software. A 32-bit CPU can only run the 32-bit editions. A 64-bit CPU can run either. All 32-bit Windows editions are limited to 4 GB system memory. 64-bit editions all support much more RAM but have different limits for licensing purposes.

64-bit editions of Windows can run most 32-bit applications software, though there may be some exceptions (you should check with the software vendor). The reverse is not true, however; a 32-bit version of Windows cannot run 64-bit applications software. 64-bit editions of Windows also require 64-bit hardware device drivers authorized ("signed") by Microsoft. If the vendor has not produced a 64-bit driver, the hardware device will not be usable.

*Windows 10 with feature update 2004 and later supports 64-bit only. Windows 11 is 64-bit only.*

## Desktop Styles

The Windows user interface (UI) is based around the desktop, Start menu, taskbar, and notification area elements. These basic desktop style elements have remained in place, but Windows versions and feature updates sometimes introduce major and minor changes. There are frequent changes to the design of the Start menu, for instance, including its brief expansion into a screen with live app tiles. As another example, feature update 1607 introduced support for dark themes, and subsequent updates have tweaked the way dark versus light themes can be configured.

Windows 11 makes several changes to the desktop style. Notably, it center-aligns the taskbar and introduces yet another design for the Start menu. There is also better support for multiple desktops. You might use multiple desktops to separate work documents and apps from games and personal documents.

# Windows Home Edition
----

The Windows Home edition is designed for domestic consumers and possibly small office home office (SOHO) business use. Windows 10 Home does not have any unique features, and it has fewer features than other editions. Notably, the Home edition cannot be used to join a Windows domain network.

The main management tasks for Windows Home are configuring secure use by family members and simple file sharing of picture, music, and video files in a workgroup network with other Windows computers and smart home devices, such as smart speakers and TVs. Many home computers are also configured to play games.

*Windows 11 has the same editions as Windows 10.*

## Windows Home Licensing

Windows Home supports two licensing models:

An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) license means that the OS is pre-installed to a PC or laptop and is valid for that device only. The computer vendor is responsible for support. Most new devices will support upgrading the license to Windows 11.
A retail license may be transferred between computers, though it can only be installed on a single device at any one time. A retail license is supported by Microsoft and comes with Windows 11 upgrade rights.

## Windows Home System Limitations

Windows Home does not support the use of multiple CPUs, though it does support multicore (up to 64 cores) and HyperThreading. The 64-bit edition is restricted to 128 GB RAM. 



# Windows Work and Education Edition
----

Other editions of Windows are designed for use at work and in education:

- Windows Pro is designed for small- and medium-size businesses and can be obtained using OEM, retail, or volume licensing. This "Professional" edition comes with management features designed to allow network administrators more control over each client device. There is also a Pro for Workstations edition with support for more advanced hardware.
- Windows Enterprise has the full feature set but is only available via volume licensing.
- Windows Education/Pro Education are variants of the Enterprise and Pro editions designed for licensing by schools and colleges.

The principal distinguishing feature of the Pro, Enterprise, and Education editions is the ability to join a domain network.

In a workgroup network, the PCs and laptops can share data and communicate, but each machine and its user account database are managed separately.

On a corporate network, it is necessary to manage user accounts and system policies centrally because there are more machines to administer, and security requirements are higher. This centralized management is provided by joining each computer to a domain, where the accounts are configured on Domain Controller (DC) servers.

Some other notable features of the Pro, Enterprise, and Education editions are as follows:

- Group Policy Editor (gpedit.msc) is used to create and apply OS and software application settings. These could be configured on each machine individually, but more typically they are applied via policies configured on the DC so that client machines have uniform desktop styles and settings. The editor is not available in the Home edition.
- BitLocker enables the user to encrypt all the information on a disk drive. Encryption means that data on the device is protected even if someone steals it (as long as they cannot crack the user password). BitLocker is not supported in Windows Home edition.

Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) allows a user to connect to the machine and operate it over a network. While the Home edition has the RDP client software, it does not support an RDP server.
