### Obj Mapping to CompTIA 220-1101
----
Section | Title | Objective
| --- | --- | --- 
| 1.1 | Course Introduction |  1.1 Given a Scenario, install and configure laptop hardware and components <br>  2.2 Compare and contrast common network hardware. <br> 3.3 Given a Scenario, select and install storage devices

Computers are made up of two parts
- Hardware
- Software

Hardware - Physical components installed inside or connected to a computer system
Software - Gives instructions to the hardware (data) stored on a drive (hard drive or solid state drive.


## Input Device 
----
CompTIA A+ Objective 3.x

Any piece of hardware that takes info from outside the computer and tx it inside where the computer hardware can use it. 

Common input devices
- Keyboard
	- Takes user input and sends them as electrical signals to the internal computer hardware where they're process. When a key is pressed, an internal chip called the scanning chip, Id's which key was pressed and then sends the appropriate code to the computer.
- Mouse
	- Tracks movement of the X,Y coordinates. 
	- Most common type is an Optical Mouse which uses light and a senor to track movement.
		- less common uses a trackball that the user rolls to move the mouse pointer
- Touch Screen
	- Resistive
		- uses 2 flexible layers that are separated by a gap. Inside this gap is an electrical current. When the screen is tapped, outer layer depresses and contacts the inner layer created an electrical signal that id's the x/y coord. 
	- Capacitive
		- Uses a screen that is coated w/ a conductive material.  Electrical current is then run through the material. When something touches the screen a small sensor id the touch and generates the x/y coord.  Used in Smartphones, tablets and some laptops. 

## Processing Unit
----
CompTIA A+ Objective 3.x

- CPU
	- Signals generated by the input device need to be analyzed. This is done with the CPU. CPU is like the brain of the computer. It processes data according to a set of instructions or software.
- RAM
	- RAM (read access memory) used to store processed information so it can be quickly accessed at a later time. 
	- Ram is Volatile. It will erase its data when power is removed. 
	- Extremely fast. Faster than any other type of storage hardware.


## Storage 
---
- Hard Drives
- Solid State Drives
- CD/DVD/ Blue-Ray
	- Can be read-only or Writable. 
- Flash Drives
- SD Card


## Output Devices
----
Any Device that rx data from a computer and outputs it in a physical medium

- Monitor
- Printer
- Sound Card

## Networking Device
----
A Network is a group of two or more computers that are connected together.
Can take information being processed by the CPU and send it to each other. This makes networking hardware both input and output devices. 

## Modular Design
----
Standardized 



## Network and Server Cabinets
----
Network Rack also called a Server Rack is a metal frame designed to hold networking components, such as Switches, patch panels, UPS devices, etc. 

### Router
----
Connects two or more network segments or subnets. 

### Switch
----
Connects multiple devices to the same network segments. 

### Patch Panels
----
Provides an convenient way to connect devices and accommodate different types of cabling, such as Ethernet (twisted-pair) RJ-45. and Fiber Optic cables

### Servers
----
Provide functions such as storing data, managing AD, providing IP addresses (DHCP) etc. 

### UPS
----
Constantly provides battery pwr to a computer while the wall outlet recharges the battery. 

### Wireless Controller
----
Monitor and manage Wi-Fi access points. 