4.4 Given a scenario, use common safety procedures.

- Electrostatic discharge (ESD) strap
- ESD mats
- Equipment grounding
- Proper power handling
- Proper component handling and storage
- Antistatic bags
- Compliance with government regulations
- Personal safety
    - Disconnect power before repairing PC
    - Lifting techniques
    - Electrical fire safety
    - Safety goggles
    - Air filtration masks

4.5 Summarize environmental impacts and local environmental  
controls.

- Material safety data sheet (MSDS)/documentation for handling and disposal
    - Proper battery disposal
    - Proper toner disposal
    - Proper disposal of other devices and assets

## 2.1.1 Safety
----
### Power Hazard
- Remove Jewelry to prevent it from being caught in equipment or from transferring an electrical charge.  
- Never work on powered equipment
- Remove battery from Mobile Devices
### Capacitor Hazard
- Power is stored in Capacitor even with power being turned off and/or being unplugged. 
- Do not attempt to open and repair a power supply. Consider the PSU a Field-Replaceable unit (FRU)

### ESD and High Volt
- Avoid Servicing High Volt equipment. 
- If you wear an ESD strap you become the path of least resistance for current. 

### Peripheral Hazard
- Laser Printer Toner roller extreme heat to transfer (fuse / melt) toner onto the paper. 
- CD/DVD rom laser light 
- Heat sink. allow time to cool

### Physical Hazard
- Wire management 

### Lifting
- Lift with Knees, not back
-  National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has a lifting equation (discussed in the above-referenced _Applications Manual_) for calculating a _recommended weight limit_ for one person under different conditions. The lifting equation establishes a maximum load of 51 pounds, which is then adjusted to account for how often you are lifting, twisting of your back during lifting, the vertical distance the load is lifted, the distance of the load from your body, the distance you move while lifting the load, and how easy it is to hold onto the load.

### Fire
- Have a Class C rated for electrical fires near by.

### MSDS
Material Safety Data Sheet explain what you should do if you come into contact with a potentially dangerous item.
- how to dispose of equipment
	- example - Alkaline Battery to trash, NiCad NO


## 2.1.2 Safety Measure
----
## Power Handling

The following practices should be followed to ensure your safety when handling power components.

|Hazards|Description|
|---|---|
|Power|Power hazards can cause electrical shock and burns.<br><br>- Before handling a system component, make sure that it is powered off and that the main power cord is unplugged from the wall socket.<br>- Ensure that the grounding pin on a PC power plug is intact.<br>- Unplug the system before working on internal components. Newer power supplies constantly pull power from the socket.<br>- Be aware that the power inverter (power supply) converts AC to DC. Also be aware that the power supply can retain an electrical charge, even when it's not plugged in. Replace faulty power supplies instead of trying to repair them.<br>- Avoid opening the power supply, which houses a capacitor (stores a large charge of electricity).|
|Capacitor|A _capacitor_ is a device that stores an electric charge. Be sure to discharge capacitors or turn the equipment over to qualified personnel for servicing. Similarly, exercise caution when working with the DC converter in a laptop display.|
|ESD and high voltage|_Electrostatic discharge (ESD)_ is the flow of electricity from one electrically charged object to another. While some ESD can be unnoticeable to the human senses, it can still be hazardous to computer components.  <br>Take the following precautions when handling electronics:<br><br>- Use ESD wrist straps not only to protect components, but to reduce the chance of accidental electrical shock. Properly ground yourself before working with components.<br>- Do not use an ESD wrist strap when working with monitors, power supplies, laptop LCD panels, or other high-voltage components.<br>- Exercise caution when wearing jewelry, because it readily conducts electricity and could cause burns or even electrocution.|
|Peripherals|A _peripheral_ is a device that connects to a computer, such as a monitor or a printer. Peripherals can present a safety hazard to you.<br><br>- Do not use a regular multimeter or other electrical testing equipment to measure charge inside a monitor.<br>- Never clean the monitor's glass with a liquid solvent while the monitor is powered on.<br>- Some studies suggest that laser printers emit tiny particles which could be dangerous when inhaled. As a precaution, do not locate laser printers immediately next to desks, and keep the area ventilated.<br>- Avoid handling leaky batteries. The leaking electrolytes can be harmful if they get into your eyes.<br>- Never look into the end of a fiber optic networking cable. Laser light can damage your eyes.|

## Personal Safety

Personal safety is your top priority when working with computer components. The following practices should be followed to ensure your safety.

|Practice|Description|
|---|---|
|Thermal|Components such as the CPU heat sink and fan, the printing head of a dot matrix printer, or components inside a laser printer can be hot. After turning off a computer or printer, allow components to cool sufficiently before servicing to prevent burns.|
|Physical|Make sure the room and the building are properly set up to ensure your safety.<br><br>- Keep work areas and floors clear of clutter to help prevent accidents.<br>- Do not route cables across the floor in pathways. This can lead to tripping accidents and could also result in worn cables.<br>- Provide adequate ventilation in an enclosure to remove toxic fumes.<br>- Protect yourself from airborne particles by using an air filter mask.<br>- Wear safety goggles.<br>- Replace worn or frayed power cords.|
|Lifting|Be careful when lifting heavy objects.<br><br>- Bend your knees and keep your back straight, using your legs to lift objects.<br>- Wear a back brace for added protection if your job requires frequent lifting.<br>- Use carts and other tools when moving heavy objects for any significant distance.<br>- Ask for help, if necessary, when lifting or moving heavier objects.<br>- Follow the weight limitation guidelines defined by your employer.|
|Cleanliness|Clean hardware regularly to avoid problems caused by built-up dust.<br><br>- Use compressed air to clean delicate components.<br>- Use a specialized vacuum to clean dust from other hardware.<br>- Avoid blowing dust into other hardware or all over your office.|
|Fire|Every room in which you work should be fire suppressed.<br><br>- Have at least a Class C fire extinguisher available. A Class C fire extinguisher is made for electrical fires.<br>- Make sure fire extinguishers and fire suppression methods (e.g., sprinklers) are properly implemented and maintained.<br>- Promptly report any potentially hazardous situations.<br>- Make the safety of others your top priority in responding to any incident. In the event of a hazardous situation, clear people from the area or remove the danger before attempting other actions such as preventing or repairing damage to components.|
|Clothing and jewelry|Jewelry and clothing can get in the way and can help to create or conduct static electricity.<br><br>- Avoid wearing loose clothing.<br>- Remove jewelry from hands and wrists when working on computer components.|
|Eyes and mouth|Protect your eyes and mouth from flying debris, dust, or allergens by using:<br><br>- Air filtration mask<br>- Safety glasses|

## Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)

A material safety data sheet (MSDS) provides information related to potential hazards and safety precautions within an organization. A MSDS should include:

- A listing of hazardous chemicals or components.
- Potential effects of exposure.
- Requirements for the handling and storage of hazardous materials including such things as:
    - Proper battery disposal
    - Proper toner disposal
    - Proper disposal of other devices and assets
- Response plan if accidents do occur.
    - Plan for responding to injuries.
    - Plan for securing hazardous materials.



## 2.1.3 ESD
----
- Electrical components can be dmg by as little as 100 volts or less. 
- when you feel a zap from a static discharge, this is at least 3,000 volts. 
	- while working on a components you could be shocking the unit countless of times without knowing  because the charge is so small you can not feel or see it. 

### Precaution
----
- Use ESD Mats
	- Equalize the electrical potential between you and the component. 
- Do not touch gold or silver leads from components or expansion cards. 
- Use  Static Shielding bags
	- They absorb esd as they occur and dissipates the charge around the component instead of letting them go through 

- Low Humidity (dry air) acts as a resistor and allows static electricity to build up. 

### 2.1.4 ESD Protection
----
- Static Mat
	- Equalize charge
- Ground the Computer
	- connect ESD strap to bare metal of the case

#### 2.1.5 ESD Facts
-----
-   
    Copy Text
- Print Text
- Listen to Text

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Electrostatic discharge (ESD)
- ESD safety measures

##### Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)

Static electricity is the accumulation of a friction-caused electric charge on a non-grounded object. The static charge on the surface of a non-grounded object can jump when it contacts the surface of any grounded object. This electric discharge is known as electrostatic discharge (ESD). ESD can be very destructive to a computer.

The threat of ESD begins when the fragile components (including the processor, hard drives, memory, motherboard, and expansion cards) inside the computer are exposed. You can cause damage simply by placing a fingertip too close to a component inside an open computer case. ESD charges can travel through wires and into components, where the wires can explode or fuse together, causing the components to fail. ESD can cause immediate failure of components or could gradually degrade components, causing only intermittent problems. It takes very little ESD to damage a component. A discharge of as little as 10 volts can damage a component, but 3,000 volts or more of ESD must occur before you can even feel it.

##### ESD Safety Measures

Implement the following measures to defend components from ESD:

- Keep the relative humidity in the room at an ideal range of 35-70%, and temperature between 72-77 degrees. The key is to avoid dry air in the computer repair location to prevent ESD.
- Use antistatic mats under the PC and on the floor.
- Discharge yourself before touching any computer component.
- When touching anything inside the computer, wear an antistatic wrist strap that is attached to the metal PC chassis with an alligator clip.
- Ground both yourself and the computer to the same ground. This provides a single path for the flow of electrical potential.
- Use static-resistant materials to handle computer components.
- Never touch the metal connectors on a circuit board.
- Keep the computer repair location free of materials that accumulate electric charges, such as plastic and Styrofoam.
- Store sensitive components in static shielding bags, which are usually grey. Static-resistant bags are not nearly as effective. They are usually tinted pink or blue.
- Unplug the system before working on internal components. Do not rely on the power cord for an electrical ground.



## Practice Quiz 
----
1. Timothy works in the graphic arts departments and has received approval to upgrade his video card. The card has arrived, and you are ready to begin the upgrade by replacing the old video card with the new one in his workstation.

	To ensure your personal safety, which of the following should you do FIRST?
	A. Put on Safety Glasses
	B. Remove Jewelry
	C. Place the Computer on an ESD Mat
	D. Disconnect Power

### Explanation

Before you begin any internal service on a computer, you must always be sure that the computer is completely disconnected from the power source. Not removing power can lead to serious harm or death.

After the power is disconnected, you should remove any jewelry. Doing this eliminates the possibility of accidentally getting any electronic discharges.

Placing the computer on an ESD mat and using safety glasses would also be beneficial, but the first thing you should do is disconnect power.

2. Your U.S.-based company has recently purchased an old office building where employees are being assigned to work. As you are setting up the employees' desktop computers, you come to one location where the nearest wall outlet has only two prongs. All of the metal-enclosed desktop computers have three-prong cords.

	Which of the following is the BEST way to proceed with that particular desktop computer?
	A. Find a different outlet
	B. Use existing cord, but remove the grounding prong, as it is not required.
	C. Get a  new Power cord.
	D. Purchase an adapter that converts the three-prong cable to two prongs.
	
	### Explanation

The third, or middle, prong of a computer plug is the grounding prong. In the event of a malfunction, the electricity flows through the grounding prong to the earth which, in turn, trips off the breaker, removing all electricity from that outlet. If the grounding prong is removed or bypassed and a malfunction occurs, the electricity will find the next shortest path to the earth, which may be a person who touches the computer. Having the electricity pass through a person could cause serious harm or even death.

You should never remove the third grounding prong or use an adapter to bypass the prong.


3. In which of the following situations should you NOT use an ESD wrist strap?
	A. When working with high-volt components
	B. When replacing worn or frayed power cords.
	C. When replacing memory modules
	D. When wearing jewelry

	### Explanation

Do not use an ESD wrist strap when working with monitors, power supplies, laptop LCD panels, or other high-voltage components.

If you wear jewelry when working with hardware components, you need to be careful as it can conduct electricity and cause physical harm. However, using an ESD wrist strap is designed to protect hardware components and does not impact personal safety.

An ESD wrist strap protects hardware components and has no impact on personal safety when replacing worn or frayed power cords.

An ESD wrist strap is specifically designed to protect memory modules from electrostatic discharge when replacing memory modules in a computer.

4. To improve the safety of your location and comply with regulations regarding work environments with hazardous materials, you have been assigned to assemble Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for all chemicals used in your shop.

	How should you obtain these documents?
	A. Write them yourself after researching the issues
	B. Download them from the chemical manufacturer's website
	C. Get them from your local workers' safety insurance office
	D. Ask your manger for them
	
	Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are written and distributed by chemical manufacturers. You can download them from the manufacturer's website or request them from a company representative.

MSDS sheets contain information that is only available from the manufacturer. Neither your manager or a workers' safety insurance office can provide MSDS documents. Attempting to write your own MSDS sheet can be dangerous, as you do not have all the critical information necessary that is available from the manufacturer.


5. Which of the following devices can store large amounts of electricity, even when unplugged?
	A. DVD Optical Drive
	B. CRT Monitor
	C. LCD Monitor
	D. Hard Disk Drive

A cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor can store large amounts of electricity, even when unplugged. You should never open a CRT monitor, as the capacitors within the CRT can store enough electricity to be lethal.

LCD monitors do not use large capacitors and are much safer to work on than CRT monitors (although the CCFL backlight has mercury vapor in it, which could be harmful if the tube is broken).

DVD optical drives and hard disk drives do not store electricity in sufficient quantity to be harmful.

6. Jeannette's workstation is overheating. She decides to open the workstation and clean any accumulated dust to see if it helps with the overheating issue.

	Which of the following can Jeannette safely do to remove dust? (Select two.)
	A. Use special Vacuum to clean dust from all hardware components
	B. Use Short Bursts of compress air to clean delicate componets
	C. Use continuous stream of compressed air to clean all components
	D. Remove the power supply to do detailed cleaning
	E. Use a lint-free cloth and cleaning solvent to remove all dust accumulation

	Using short bursts of compressed air to clean delicate components followed by using a special vacuum designed to remove dust from all components provides a safe procedure for removing accumulated dust.
	
	Removing the power supply to clean it outside of the case can cause personal safety issues as the capacitor in the power supply can still hold an electrical charge.
	
	Using a continuous stream of compressed air to clean all components can cause dust to blow into other components and even into the office, which can then accumulate in other electrical devices.
	
	Using a cleaning solvent can cause serious damage to hardware components, especially if it comes in contact with electrical connections.

7. While it takes 3,000 volts or more of ESD before you can feel it, it takes very little ESD to damage a computer component.

	What is the minimum ESD volt discharge that can actually damage a component?
	A. 10Volts
	B. 100 Volts
	C. 500 Volts
	D. 50 Volts
	
	A discharge of as little as 10 volts can damage a component, but 3,000 volts or more of ESD must occur before you can even feel it.

8. Which of the following is a myth regarding electrostatic discharge (ESD)?
	A. If you can't feel ESD, the surge is not sufficient to harm computer components. 
	B. Sitting down or standing up from a chair can create static electricity
	C. Most often, ESD degrades computer components, and they fail at a later date.
	D. Simply touching an object can create static electricity. You do not have to rub the object.

	To be felt, an ESD charge has to reach the level of approximately 3,000 volts. Some computer components can be destroyed by discharges as low as 20 or 30 volts.

	The other statements about ESD are true.	

9. You work for a store that sells and repairs computers. Due to the room's layout, while repairing computers, you must walk from one side of the carpeted room to the other frequently.
	
	Which of the following would BEST protect you from static electricity buildup?
	A. ESD Wrist Strap
	B. ESD Heel Strap
	C. ESD Mat
	D. Self-grounding

	Walking across a room, especially on carpet, will generate static electricity on your person. Discharging this electricity to a computer component may damage that component. Under these circumstances, it is best to use an electrostatic discharge (ESD) wrist strap to ensure proper grounding.

An ESD heel strap only works if the surface the technician is walking on is ESD-protected. Since this room has nothing but carpet, heel straps would be ineffective.

ESD mats neutralize the static buildup between the computer and mat, but it is still best if you connect yourself to the computer via an ESD wrist strap. Otherwise, the static electricity you gain by walking across the floor can still be discharged to a computer component you touch.

Although self-grounding is good, the fact that you are working on carpet means that additional static may build up if you shuffle your feet while working.

10. To prevent ESD when replacing internal computer components, you attach an anti-static wrist strap to your wrist. Where should the other end be fastened? (Select two.)
	A. Anti-static mat
	B. Metal Area on the computer case
	C. Screw on the wall power outlet
	D. Ground wire on the wall power outlet
	E. Ground wire on the power supply.



