
# Objectives
----
As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What are some ways you can make a good impression on a client?
- How should you respond to a difficult client situation?

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

|Exam|Objective|
|---|---|
|CompTIA A+ 220-1102|4.7 Given a scenario, use proper communication techniques and professionalism<br><br>- Professional appearance and attire<br>    - Formal<br>    - Business casual<br>- Use proper language and avoid jargon, acronyms, and slang, when applicable<br>- Maintain a positive attitude/project confidence<br>- Actively listen, take notes, and avoid interrupting the customer<br>- Be culturally sensitive<br>    - Use appropriate professional titles, when applicable<br>- Be on time (if late, contact the customer)<br>- Avoid distractions<br>    - Personal phone calls<br>    - Texting/social media sites<br>    - Personal interruptions<br>- Dealing with difficult customers or situations<br>    - Avoid dismissing customer problems<br>    - Do not argue with customers or be defensive<br>    - Avoid being judgmental<br>    - Clarify customer statements (ask open-ended questions to narrow the scope of the problem, restate the issue, or question to verify understanding<br>    - Do not disclose experience via social media outlets<br>- Set and meet expectations/time line and communicate status with the customer<br>    - Offer repair/replacement options, as needed<br>    - Provide proper documentation on the services provided<br>    - Follow up with customer/user later to verify satisfaction<br>- Deal appropriately with customers’ confidential and private materials.<br>    - Located on a computer, desktop, printer, etc.|


## 2.3.1 Professional
----

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Making a good impression
- Handling difficult scenarios
- Identifying problems and implementing solutions

## Making a Good Impression

If your first contact with the client is positive, the relationship will be much easier to handle and maintain.

- Arrive at appointments on time and prepared. If you are going to be late, contact the client and let them know.
- Dress professionally and adhere to any company dress codes. This includes appearing well-groomed.
- Greet the client and introduce yourself.
- Ask permission before entering the client's office or home.
- Address the client using the appropriate title.
- Be sensitive to cultural differences between the two of you.
- Avoid distractions or interruptions, including texting and social media notifications. Don't take personal phone calls. Ask permission before taking work-related calls.

## Handling Difficult Scenarios

Always show respect. This includes showing respect not only to your clients but also to their workspaces and computers.

- Never argue with a client or become defensive.
- Avoid accusing the client. Even if the client caused the problem, do not point fingers.
- Stay calm and avoid being judgmental or insulting.
- Never complain about clients on social media platforms.

## Identifying Problems and Implementing Solutions

Being professional extends to identifying the problem and implementing solutions. During this process, keep in mind the following:

- Get authorization to proceed before making any unexpected repairs or fixing items that were not part of the original problem, especially if the extra repairs result in an additional charge.
- After you have fixed the problem, try it out (or let the client try it out) to make sure that other problems don't exist.
- After the repairs are finished, provide the client with a detailed invoice of the work performed. Also, include any manuals or documentation related to new hardware.
- Ask the client if they would like to keep the failed components.
- If necessary, take the time to briefly explain any new software or hardware that was installed.
- If applicable, offer additional services or training that might be beneficial to the client.
- If the problem is related to user error or is caused by actions taken by the client, tactfully explain the problem without accusing or judging the client.
- Before leaving, make sure the client is satisfied that the problem has been resolved. For best client service and based on your company policy, follow up with the client to verify that the problem remains fixed.

Communicate effectively. Understanding both your and your client's expectations is very helpful.

- Use clear, concise, and direct statements.
- Ask the client open-ended questions so the client will talk about the issue and you can gather information.
- Allow the client to speak and avoid interrupting.
- Clarify client statements—restate what the client said and ask pertinent questions.
- Take notes on complicated or important information.
- Avoid using jargon, abbreviations, and acronyms. Take time to explain technical terms and issues simply.
- Clearly explain the problem and any repair options. Be sure to explain the advantages, disadvantages, and cost of a repair.
- Ask before moving items on desks or making changes to computer systems.
- Do not browse files on computers that are not necessary or related to the repair.
- Set realistic expectations for finishing work—when in doubt, overestimate.


-----


