## Objectives
----
As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What is change management?
- What components are typically included in a change request?
- What is a risk analysis?

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

|Exam|Objective|
|---|---|
|CompTIA A+ Certification 220-1102|4.2 Explain basic change-management best practices.<br><br>- Documented business processes<br>    - Rollback plan<br>    - Sandbox testing<br>    - Responsible staff member<br>- Change management<br>    - Request forms<br>        - Purpose of the change<br>        - Scope of the change<br>        - Date and time of the change<br>        - Affected systems/impact<br>        - Risk analysis<br>            - Risk level<br>        - Change board approvals End-user acceptance|



## Facts
----


This lesson covers the following topics:

- Change request
- Change approval
- Implementation

## Change Request

Most organizations have an official approval process for change management. Change order forms are commonly used to document a change request. Change order forms are different at different companies, but they almost always require you to provide a few key things:

|Requirement|Description|
|---|---|
|Purpose of change|This section includes:<br><br>- Why do you want to make this change?<br>- Why is the change needed?<br>- Will it improve a current process, save money, or add additional functionality?<br>- Does the change align with the organization’s current mission and strategy?|
|Scope of change|The scope asks:<br><br>- What exactly do you want to change?<br>- What are the desired outcomes or deliverables?<br>- Will you need to request funding to cover new hardware or software?<br>- What about man-hours?<br>- Will you need programmers or technicians or administrative staff to work on the change?<br>- Who is the primary contact?<br>- Which existing systems will be impacted?<br>- Will there be down time?<br>- How will you know that the change is complete, and what quality control measures will you have in place to ensure that the project is complete?|
|Risk analysis|Risk analysis asks:<br><br>- What is likely to go wrong if we implement these changes?<br>- Are the risks worth it?|
|Backout plan|A backout plan specifies how you will return affected systems to their original states if your implementation fails.|

## Change Approval

After completing the change request form, it must be approved by a change board. A change board might consist of one person or many people. Change board members are chosen before the project starts. They are the people who must approve changes to the project. Board members might include:

- Managers
- Project managers
- Executive management
- Customers

## Implementation

During the implementation of a project, make sure to document all changes that have been made along the way. Include any approvals that you received along the way.

Once completed, be sure to follow your organization’s end-user acceptance process. This process ensures that someone who is going to be using the system verifies that it is working as expected. Be sure to document this verification as well.



## Quiz
----
1. Which part of the change management process specifies how you will return affected system to their original state if your implementation fails?
	A. Backout Plan
	B. Purpose
	C. Risk Analysis
	D. Scope
	A backout plan specifies how you'll return affected systems to their original state if your implementation fails.

	The risk analysis, scope, and purpose are parts of the change management process that are often documented on a change request form, but do not cover returning a system to an original state.

2. You are filling out a change order form. Toward its end, you explain how you will return affected hardware and software to its original state if the change fails. What is this plan called?
	A. Backout Plan
	B. System Image Plan
	C. Risk Analysis
	D. Rollback Plan

	A backout plan is the portion of a change order form that details how you will return affected hardware and software to its original state if the proposed change fails.
	
	A risk analysis is the portion of a change order form that details the risks of the proposed change and presents a plan for mitigating them.
	
	A rollback is an operation that returns a database to a previous state.
	
	A system image backs up all data on a drive volume

3.  Who needs to approve a change before it is initiated? (Select two)
	A. Change Board
	B. Customer
	C. Regional Rep
	D. Sales Rep
	E. Marketing Director
	
	The change board and, often, the client/end user must approve changes before they are initiated.
	
	The change board may include the CEO, managers, or other personnel, but approval from persons outside the change board (such as a marketing director, sales rep, or regional rep) is not generally required.

4. As a systems engineer for a large retail corporation, you have filled out a change order form to replace the laptop computers that sales reps use on the road with business tablets that are much more durable, provide both touch and keyboard options, and are more portable and easier to use when working with clients.
	
	The request has been forwarded to the change board, which is reviewing the change order form with you. One of the board members asks if this change will impact plans to move more of the business online to reach customers directly.
	
	Which of the following questions does the board member really want answered?
	A. How does this change fit with company's current strategic focus?
	B. What is the scope of the requested change?
	C. What are the desired outcomes?
	D. What are the desired deliverables?

	What the board member really wants to know is how the requested change will fit with the company's strategic focus to move business online.

	The scope, deliverables, and desired outcomes are also questions that the board will want to know more about, but they do not relate to the strategic focus change of moving online.

5. What section of a change order form would include the desired outcomes of a project?
	A. Scope of Change
	B. Purpose of Change
	C. Backout Plan
	D. Risk Analysis

	The scope asks what the desired outcomes or deliverables will be of your project.

	The purpose of the change, risk analysis, and backout plan sections do not provide the specific deliverables.

6.  What is the standard change order form information?
	1. Purpose of the Change
	2. Scope of the change
	3. Risk analysis
	4. Backout plan
	Generally, a change order form requires you to explain your change request in the following order:

	- Purpose of the change
	- Scope of the change
	- Risk analysis
	- Backout plan
	
	The other options (such as change board membership) are not generally required information.

7.  Which documents are generally finished and approved before a project beings? (Select Three)
	A. Project Plan
	B. Budget
	C. Risk Assessment
	D. Change order Form
	E. Slide presentation
	F. Customer acceptance checklist
	G. Analysis spreadsheet

	Most businesses require executive sign-off on a project's plan, budget, and risk assessment before it begins.

	A change order form is the document used to request changes to a project that is underway.
	
	A slide presentation or analysis spreadsheet are not required, although they might be useful.
	
	A customer acceptance checklist is important, but only after the project is completed.

8. Which part of the change management process asks how the project will align with the organization's current mission and strategy?
	A. Purpose of the Change
	B. Scope of the change
	C. Change implementation
	D. Plan for the change

	Change management forms will ask you the purpose of the change. This includes how the change aligns with the organization's current mission and strategy.

	The scope, plan for change, and change implementation are parts of the change management process, but do not include alignment with the organization's mission

9. 	skipped

10.  Who does the term *responsible staff member* refer to?
	A. The person who should be the primary contact person for the project.
	B. The person responsible for approving the request
	C. The person who is responsible for performing most of the project work
	D. The person responsible for submitting the request. 