
2.7


# LESSON INTRODUCTION

Troubleshooting is a core competency for the role of CompTIA A+ service technician. Whether it is trying to identify a fault in a new build system or assisting a user with a computer that has just stopped working, you will typically be required to demonstrate your troubleshooting skills on each and every day of your job.

To become an effective troubleshooter, you need a wide range of knowledge, the ability to pay attention to details, and the readiness to be open and flexible in your approach to diagnosing issues. It is also important to learn and apply best practices and a structured methodology to give yourself the best chance of success when diagnosing complex troubleshooting scenarios.

Along with best practices, you also need to build knowledge of and experience with the common symptoms that affect PC system components and peripheral devices.






# Apply Troubleshooting Methodology
----

To some extent, being an effective troubleshooter simply involves having a detailed knowledge of how something is supposed to work and of the sort of things that typically go wrong. However, the more complex a system is, the less likely it is that this sort of information will be at hand. Consequently, it is important to develop general troubleshooting skills to approach new and unexpected situations confidently.

Troubleshooting starts with a process of problem-solving. It is important to realize that problems have causes, symptoms, and consequences. For example:

- A computer system has a fault in the hard disk drive (cause).
- Because the disk drive is faulty, the operating system is displaying a "blue screen" (symptom).
- Because of the fault, the user cannot do any work (consequence).

From a business point-of-view, resolving the consequences or impact of the problem is more important than solving the original cause. For example, the most effective solution might be to provide the user with another workstation, then get the drive replaced.

Problems also need to be dealt with according to priority and severity. The disk issue affects a single user and cannot take priority over issues with wider impact, such as the data center suddenly losing power.

It is also important to realize that the cause of a specific problem might be the symptom of a larger problem. This is particularly true if the same problem recurs. For example, you might ask why the disk drive is faulty—is it a one-off error or are there problems in the environment, supply chain, and so on?

These issues mean that the troubleshooting procedures should be developed in the context of best practice methodologies and approaches. One such best practice framework is the CompTIA's A+ troubleshooting model. The steps in this model are as follows:

1. Identify the problem:
	a.  Gather information from the user, identify user changes, and, if applicable, perform backups before making changes.
	b.  Inquire regarding environmental or infrastructure changes.
2. Establish a theory of probable cause (question the obvious):
	a.  If necessary, conduct external or internal research based on symptoms.
3. Test the theory to determine the cause:
	a.  Once the theory is confirmed, determine the next steps to resolve the problem.
	b.  If the theory is not confirmed, re-establish a new theory or escalate.
4. Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the solution:
	a.  Refer to the vendor’s instructions for guidance.
5. Verify full-system functionality and, if applicable, implement preventive measures.
6. Document the findings, actions, and outcomes.


# Identify the Problem
----
The troubleshooting process starts by **identifying the problem**. Identifying the problem means establishing the consequence or impact of the issue and listing symptoms. The consequence can be used to prioritize each support case within the overall process of problem management.

### Gather Information from the User

The first report of a problem will typically come from a user or another technician, and this person will be one of the best sources of information, if you can ask the right questions. Before you begin examining settings in Windows or taking the PC apart, spend some time **gathering information from the user** about the problem. Ensure you ask the user to describe _all_ the circumstances and symptoms. Some good questions to ask include:

- What are the exact error messages appearing on the screen or coming from the speaker?
- Is anyone else experiencing the same problem?
- How long has the problem been occurring?
- What changes have been made recently to the system? Were these changes initiated by you or via another support request?
- The latest **change** to a system is very often the cause of the problem. If something worked previously, then excepting mechanical failures, it is likely that the problem has arisen because of some user-initiated change or some **environmental or infrastructure change**. If something has never worked, a different approach is required.
- Has anything been tried to solve the problem?

### Perform Backups

Consider the importance of data stored on the local computer when you open a support case. Check when a **backup** was last made. If a backup has not been made, perform one before changing the system configuration, if possible.

# Establish and Test a Theory
----

If you obtain accurate answers to your initial questions, you will have determined the severity of the problem (how many are affected), a rough idea of what to investigate (hardware or OS, for instance), and whether to consider the cause as deriving from a recent change, an oversight in the initial configuration, or some unexpected environmental or mechanical event.

You diagnose a problem by identifying the symptoms. From knowing what causes such symptoms, you can consider _possible_ causes to determine the **probable cause** and then devise tests to show whether it is the cause or not. If you switch your television on and the screen remains dark, you could ask yourself, "Is the problem in the television?Has the fuse blown?Is there a problem at the broadcasting station rather than with my television?" With all problems we run through a list of possibilities before deciding. The trick is to do this methodically (so that possible causes are not overlooked) and efficiently (so that the problem can be solved quickly).

### Conduct Research

You cannot always rely on the user to describe the problem accurately or comprehensively. You may need to use **research** techniques to identify or clarify symptoms and possible causes. One of the most useful troubleshooting skills is being able to perform research to find information quickly. Learn to use web and database search tools so that you can locate information that is relevant and useful. Identify different knowledge sources available to you. When you research a problem, be aware of both internal documentation and information and external support resources, such as vendor support or forums.

- Make a physical inspection—look and listen. You may be able to see or hear a fault (scorched motherboard, "sick"-sounding disk drive, no fan noise, and so on).
- If the symptoms of the problem are no longer apparent, a basic technique is to reproduce the problem—that is, repeat the exact circumstances that produced the failure or error. Some problems are intermittent, though, which means that they cannot be repeated reliably. Issues that are transitory or difficult to reproduce are often the hardest to troubleshoot.
- Check the system documentation, installation and event logs, and diagnostic tools for useful information.
- Consult other technicians who might have worked on the system recently or might be working now on some related issue. Consider that environmental or infrastructure changes might have been instigated by a different group within the company. Perhaps you are responsible for application support and the network infrastructure group has made some changes without issuing proper notice.
- Consult vendor documentation and use web search and forum resources to see if the issue is well-known and has an existing fix. 

### Question the Obvious

As you identify symptoms and diagnose causes, take care not to overlook the **obvious**—sometimes seemingly intractable problems are caused by the simplest things. Diagnosis requires both attention to detail and a willingness to be systematic.

One way to consider a computer problem systematically is to step through what should happen, either by performing the steps yourself or by observing the user. Hopefully, this will identify the exact point at which there is a failure or error.

If this approach does not work, break the troubleshooting process into compartments or categories, such as power, hardware components, drivers/firmware, software, network, and user actions. If you can isolate your investigation to a particular subsystem by eliminating "non-causes," you can troubleshoot the problem more quickly. For example, when troubleshooting a PC, you might work as follows:

1. Decide whether the problem is hardware or software related (Hardware).
2. Decide which hardware subsystem is affected (Disk).
3. Decide whether the problem is in the disk unit or connectors and cabling (Connectors).
4. Test your theory.

*A basic technique when troubleshooting a cable, connector, or device is to have a "known good" duplicate on hand. This is another copy of the same cable or device that you know works that you can use to test by substitution.*



# Establish a New Theory or Escalate
----

If your theory is not proven by the tests you make or the research you undertake, you must **establish a new theory**. If one does not suggest itself from what you have discovered so far, there may be more lengthy procedures you can use to diagnose a cause. Remember to assess business needs before embarking on very lengthy and possibly disruptive tests. Is there a simpler workaround that you are overlooking?

If a problem is particularly intractable, you can take the system down to its base configuration (the minimum needed to run). When (if) this is working, you can then add peripherals and devices or software subsystems one by one, testing after each, until eventually the problem is located. This is time-consuming but may be necessary if nothing else is providing a solution.

If you cannot solve a problem yourself, it is better to **escalate** it than to waste a lot of time trying to come up with an answer. Formal escalation routes depend on the type of support service you are operating and the terms of any warranties or service contracts that apply. Some generic escalation routes include:

- Senior technical and administrative staff, subject matter experts (SMEs), and developers/programmers within your company.
- Suppliers and manufacturers via warranty and support contracts and helplines or web contact portals.
- Other support contractors/consultants, websites, and social media.

*Obtain authorization to use social media or public forums. Do not disclose proprietary, confidential, or personal information when discussing an issue publicly.*

Choosing whether to escalate a problem is complex because you must balance the need to resolve a problem in a timely fashion against the possibility of incurring additional costs or adding to the burdens/priorities that senior staff are already coping with. You should be guided by policies and practices in the company you work for. When you escalate a problem, make sure that what you have found out or attempted so far is documented. Failing that, describe the problem clearly to whoever is taking over or providing you with assistance.
# Implement a Plan of Action
----

When you have a reliable theory of probable cause, you then need to determine the **next steps to solve the problem**.

Troubleshooting is not just a diagnostic process. Devising and implementing a plan to solve the problem requires effective decision-making. Sometimes there is no simple solution. There may be several solutions, and which is best might not be obvious. An apparent solution might solve the symptoms of the problem but not the cause. A solution might be impractical or too costly. Finally, a solution might be the cause of further problems, which could be even worse than the original problem.

There are typically three generic approaches to resolving an IT problem:

- **Repair**—You need to determine whether the cost of repair makes this the best option.
- **Replace**—Often more expensive and may be time-consuming if a part is not available. There may also be an opportunity to upgrade the part or software.
- **Workaround**—Not all problems are critical. If neither repair nor replacement is cost-effective, it may be best either to find a workaround or just to document the issue and move on.

*If a part or system is under warranty, you can return the broken part for a replacement. To do this, you normally need to obtain a returned materials authorization (RMA) ticket from the vendor.*

### Establish a Plan of Action

When you determined the best solution, you must devise a **plan of action** to put the solution in place. You have to assess the resources, time, and cost required. Another consideration is potential **impacts** on the rest of the system that your plan of action may have. A typical example is applying a software patch, which might fix a given problem but cause other programs not to work.

An effective change and configuration management system will help you to understand how different systems are interconnected. You must seek the proper authorization for your plan and conduct all remedial activities within the constraints of **corporate policies and procedures**.

### Implement the Solution

If you do not have authorization to implement a solution, you will need to escalate the problem to more senior personnel. If applying the solution is disruptive to the wider network or business, you also need to consider the most appropriate time to schedule the reconfiguration work and plan how to notify other network users.

When you make a change to the system as part of **implementing a solution**, test after each change. If the change does not fix the problem, reverse it, and then try something else. If you make a series of changes without recording what you have done, you could find yourself in a tricky position.

*Remember that troubleshooting may involve more than fixing a particular problem; it is about maintaining the resources that users need to do their work.*

### Refer to Vendor Instructions

If you are completing troubleshooting steps **under instruction** from another technician—the vendor's support service, for instance—make sure you properly understand the steps you are being asked to take, especially if it requires disassembly of a component or reconfiguration of software that you are not familiar with.

# Verify and Document
----
When you apply a solution, test that it fixes the reported problem and that the **system as a whole continues to function normally**. Tests could involve any of the following:

- Trying to use a component or performing the activity that prompted the problem report.
- Inspecting a component to see whether it is properly connected or damaged or whether any status or indicator lights show a problem.
- Disabling or uninstalling the component (if it might be the cause of a wider problem).
- Consulting logs and software tools to confirm a component is configured properly.
- Updating software or a device driver.

Before you can consider a problem closed, you should both be satisfied in your own mind that you have resolved it and get the customer's acceptance that it has been fixed. Restate what the problem was and how it was resolved, and then confirm with the customer that the incident log can be closed.

### Implement Preventive Measures

To fully solve a problem, you should implement **preventive measures**. This means eliminating any factors that could cause the problem to reoccur. For example, if the power cable on a PC blows a fuse, you should not only replace the fuse, but also check to see if there are any power problems in the building that may have caused the fuse to blow in the first place. If a computer is infected with a virus, ensure that the antivirus software is updating itself regularly and users are trained to avoid malware risks.

### Document Findings, Actions, and Outcomes

Most troubleshooting takes place within the context of a ticket system. This shows who is responsible for any particular problem and what its status is. This gives you the opportunity to add a complete description of the problem and its solution (**findings, actions, and outcomes**).

This is very useful for future troubleshooting, as problems fitting into the same category can be reviewed to see if the same solution applies. Troubleshooting steps can be gathered into a "Knowledge Base" or Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) of support articles. It also helps to analyze IT infrastructure by gathering statistics on what types of problems occur and how frequently.

The other value of a log is that it demonstrates what the support department is doing to help the business. This is particularly important for third-party support companies, who need to prove the value achieved in service contracts. When you complete a problem log, remember that people other than you may come to rely on it. Also, logs may be presented to customers as proof of troubleshooting activity. Write clearly and concisely, checking for spelling and grammar errors.

