
# Troubleshoot Missing Video Issues
----
If no image is displayed on the monitor or projector, first make sure that the display device is plugged in and turned on. Check that the monitor is not in standby mode (press a key or cycle the power to the monitor to activate it).

You may also need to use controls on the monitor itself to adjust the image or select the **appropriate data source** or input channel. For example, if there is no image on the screen, check that the monitor is set to use the HDMI port that the computer is connected to, rather than an empty DVI port. These on-screen display (OSD) menus are operated using buttons on the monitor case. As well as input control, you can usually find settings for brightness, color/contrast, and power saving. 

### Physical Cabling Issues

If the display is powered on and you can rule out a problem with the input source, check the **cable and connectors** between the video card and monitor. Make sure the cable is connected securely at both ends and is not loose. Make sure that the cable has not become stretched or crimped. Verify that the cable specification is valid for the application. For example, a basic HDMI cable might not be sufficient quality for 4K resolution, which requires High Speed rated cable.

*To rule out cable problems, use the “known good” technique and substitute with another cable. Alternatively, try the monitor with a different PC to identify whether the problem is with the display unit or with the input source.*

