
# Change Management Concept
----
Change management refers to policies and procedures that reduce the risk of configuration changes causing service downtime. Change management is closely related to configuration management.

### ITIL Configuration Management Model

IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) is a popular documentation of good and best practice activities and processes for delivering IT services. Under ITIL, configuration management is implemented using the following elements:

- Service assets are things, processes, or people who contribute to the delivery of an IT service.
- A configuration item (CI) is an asset that requires specific management procedures for it to be used to deliver the service.
- Configuration baselines are the settings that should be applied to the CI to ensure secure and reliable operation.
- Performance baselines are metrics for expected performance to provide a basis for comparison for ongoing monitoring of a CI.

The main difficulty in implementing a workable configuration management system is in determining the level of detail that must be preserved. This is not only evident in capturing the asset database and configuration baseline in the first place, but also in managing moves, adds, and changes (MACs) within the organization's computing infrastructure.

### Change Requests

A change request is generated when a fault needs to be fixed, new business needs or processes are identified, or there is room for improvement in an existing SOP or system. The need to change is often described either as reactive, where the change is forced on the organization, or as proactive, where the need for change is anticipated and initiated internally.

In a formal change-management process, the need or reasons for change and the procedure for implementing the change are captured in a request-for-change (RFC) form and submitted for approval. Change-request documentation should include:

- **Purpose of the change**—This is the business case for making the change and the benefits that will accrue. It might include an analysis of risks associated with performing the change and risks that might be incurred through not performing the requested change.
- **Scope of the change**—This is the number of devices, users, or customers that will be affected by the change. Scope can also include costs and timescales. For a complex project, it might include sub-tasks and stakeholders. Scope should also include the factors by which the success or failure of the change can be judged.

# Change Approval
----

When a change request has been drafted and submitted, it must go through an approval process.

### Change Board Approvals

If the change is normal or minor, approval might be granted by a supervisor or department manager. Major changes are more likely to be managed as a dedicated project and require approval through a Change Advisory Board (CAB). The role of the CAB is to assess both the business case and the technical merits and risks of the change plan. The CAB should include stakeholders for departments, users, or customers who will be impacted by the change as well as those proposing it, technicians who will be responsible for implementing it, and managers/directors who can authorize the budget.

### Risk Analysis

For the CAB to approve a change, it must be confident that risk analysis has identified both things that could go wrong and positive enhancements (or mitigation of negative effects) that will be made from completing the change. Risk analysis is a complex and demanding skill, but in simple terms it involves two types of approach:

- Quantitative risk analysis calculates discrete values for the impact and likelihood of each factor affecting the change proposal.
- Qualitative risk analysis seeks to identify and evaluate impact and likelihood factors through previous experience and informed opinion to replace or supplement metrics.

The outcome of risk analysis is the assignment of some risk level to the change request. This could be expressed as a discrete value or as a traffic light–type of indicator, where red is high risk, orange is moderate risk, and green is minimal risk. If the change is approved despite a high level of risk, stakeholders must be informed of these risks so that they can anticipate and react to them appropriately as the change implementation project proceeds.

### Test and Implement the Change Plan

When a change is approved, a responsible staff member is appointed to manage implementation of the change.

The implementation of change must be carefully planned, with consideration of the impact on affected systems. For most significant or major changes, organizations should attempt to test the change first. This might involve sandbox testing in a computing environment designed to replicate the production environment but isolated from it.

The change implementation in the production system should be scheduled at an appropriate date and time to minimize risks of system downtime or other negative impact on the workflow of the business units that depends on the IT system being modified. Most organizations have a scheduled maintenance window period for authorized downtime. Stakeholders should be notified in advance if there is risk of downtime.

Every change should be accompanied by a rollback plan so that the change can be reversed if it has harmful or unforeseen consequences. 

### End-user Acceptance

As well as the technical implementation, the change plan must account for end-user acceptance. It can be difficult for people to adapt to new processes and easy for them to magnify minor problems into major complaints of the “It worked before” kind. There are three principal strategies for mitigating these risks:

- Change requests should be considered by stakeholders on the change board who represent end-user and/or customer interests.
- A project that will have significant impact should incorporate user-acceptance testing (UAT) to allow end-users to work with the updated system and suggest improvements before release.
- Training and education resources must be available before the change is initiated. The support team must be ready to deal with incidents arising from the change as a priority.

# Policy Documentation
----

An acceptable use policy (AUP) sets out what someone is allowed to use a particular service or resource for. Such a policy might be used in different contexts. For example, an AUP could be enforced by a business to govern how employees use equipment and services such as telephone or Internet access provided to them at work. Another example might be an ISP enforcing a fair use policy governing usage of its Internet access services.

Enforcing an AUP is important to protect the organization from the security and legal implications of employees (or customers) misusing its equipment. Typically, the policy will forbid the use of equipment to defraud, defame, or to obtain illegal material. It is also likely to prohibit the installation of unauthorized hardware or software and to explicitly forbid actual or attempted intrusion (snooping). An organization's acceptable use policy may forbid use of Internet tools outside of work-related duties or restrict such use to break times.

Further to AUPs, it may be necessary to implement regulatory compliance requirements as logical controls or notices. For example, a splash screen might be configured to show at login to remind users of data handling requirements or other regulated use of a workstation or network app.

# Review
----
1. You are writing a proposal to improve a company’s current support procedures with a ticketing system. You have identified the following requirements for information that each ticket should capture. Following the CompTIA A+ objectives, what additional field or data point should be captured?

- User information
- Device information
- Problem description/Progress notes/Problem resolution
- Categories
- Escalation levels

This list contains no means of recording the severity of the ticket. This field is important for prioritizing issues.

2. What role do barcodes play in managing inventory?

An inventory is a list of assets stored as database records. You must be able to correlate each physical device with an asset record by labeling it. A barcode label is a good way of doing this. 

3. What are the two main types of network topology diagrams?

You can create diagrams to show the physical topology or the logical topology. The physical topology shows how nodes are connected by cabling. The logical topology shows IP addresses and subnets/VLANs. There are lots of other types of network topology diagrams, of course, but physical and logical are the two basic distinctions you can make. It is best practice not to try to create a diagram that shows both as this is likely to reduce clarity.

4. What is the purpose of a KB?

A knowledge base (KB) is a reference to assist with installing, configuring, and troubleshooting hardware and software. KBs might be created by vendors to support their products. A company might also create an internal KB, populated with guidelines, procedures, information from service tickets, and answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs).

5. The contract ended recently for several workers who were hired for a specific project. The IT department has not yet removed those employees' login accounts. It appears that one of the accounts has been used to access the network, and a rootkit was installed on a server. You immediately contact the agency the employee was hired through and learn that the employee is out of the country, so it is unlikely that this person caused the problem. What actions do you need to take?

You need to create an incident report, remove or disable the login accounts, isolate the infected server and possibly any user computers that communicate with the server, and remove the rootkit from the server. In terms of wider security policies, investigate why the temporary accounts were not disabled on completion of the project.